April 10 2024 - Contributor Spotlight for  Hervé Le Meur (#113)
jenkins-infra/contributor-spotlight: src/pages/contributors/herve-le-meur.adoc

= Hervé Le Meur
:page-name: Hervé Le Meur
:page-linkedin: 
:page-twitter: 
:page-github: hlemeur
:page-email: 
:page-image: avatar/herve-le-meur.jpg
:page-pronouns: He/Him/His
:page-location: Paris, France
:page-firstcommit: 2020
:page-datepublished: 2024-01-10
:page-featured: true
:page-intro: Hervé Le Meur is a software architect and current member of the Jenkins Infrastructure team. He was introduced to the project via Jenkins-x and then moved on to work on Jenkins as part of the Infrastructure team.

> Despite coming from a more analog background, Hervé got his first real taste for technology with the Amstrad CPC 464 computer.

Author: Yes, that was the idea in that case @lemeurherve, I've changed the wording a bit and will be committing the changes for further review in just a bit!

Today, when he's not working on Jenkins tasks, Hervé likes to go for walks outside with his family, catch up on reading, and unwind watching his favorite shows.

== What is your background prior to contributing to Jenkins? 

After graduating university, I worked at a company for 10 years, but there was no CI/CD there.
I did not have an opportunity to use open-source products there, but my next job had teams using Jenkins.
I started befriending developers there, worked to become a software architect, and spent half a year integrating CD.
Through my work, I learned more about Kubernetes & CI/CD, and in doing so I contributed quite a lot to Jenkins-x, which is what we used as the CI/CD tool.

> However, due to the project being in BETA, it was more complicated than I anticipated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, due to the project being in beta, it was more complicated than I anticipated.
```

In my head I was a programmer, not a sysadmin.
So when link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/markewaite/[Mark Waite] was interviewing me and asked me some network questions, this was a bit daunting and seemed potentially impossible.
However, I had an interview with Mark, link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/dduportal/[Damien Duportal], and link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/olblak/[Olivier Vernin] that was a fantastic experience.
We were able to have a meaningful discussion that helped me feel more comfortable, and made my decision easier.
15 minutes before my interview, I got a final offer from another company (where Damien & link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/jmmeessen/[Jean-Marc Meessen] had previously worked), hesitated and it turned out for the best since I'm still part of the Jenkins project today.
I also had experience moderating an online forum, so the community part of the role was familiar to me.

== How long have you been using Jenkins?

I started with Jenkins-x but had never touched Jenkins proper.

> My initial impression of Jenkins was not positive, thinking it was due to how bad and unstable it was.
> However, once I started using Jenkins, it was the comparrison was night and day.
> My first impression was that it was heavy & slow compared to others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
My initial impression of Jenkins was not positive, thinking it was due to how bad and unstable it was.
I thought it was heavy and slow compared to alternatives.
However, once I started using Jenkins the comparison was night and day.
```

I was not alone in thinking that Jenkins is not necessarily the best, fastest, or newest project, but was proven wrong once I started working on the project.

== Why choose Jenkins over other projects?

I didn't necessarily choose Jenkins as much as it is the main part of my job.
As part of my role, I've spent time looking at what Olivier, Damien & Mark have put in place for infrastructure.

> Jenkins is much more improved and efficient, with complete integration from server to image delivery, we have control and segmentation over every aspect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jenkins is much improved and efficient.
With complete integration from server to image delivery, we have control and segmentation over every aspect.
```

I love the fact that we are using Jenkins to develop and distribute Jenkins.

> This is unique because most open-source tools don't have transference success, where Jenkins has spent so much time and effort building to work with developer processes and functionalities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is unique because most open-source tools don't have transference success, whereas Jenkins has spent so much time and effort building to work with developer processes and functionalities.
```

In my eyes, this is one of the main aspects of why Jenkins is successful.

> Jenkins has also integrated other tools, such as Terraform, Puppet, academage, and M-Files with Jenkins, but Jenkins is the main orchestrator of these.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jenkins has also integrated other tools, such as Terraform, Puppet, Academage, and M-Files with Jenkins, but Jenkins is the main orchestrator of these.
```

> Other projects and tools do not own their issues, but Jenkins owns, and works on its issues, in order to improve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other projects and tools do not own their issues, but Jenkins owns and works on its issues in order to improve.
```

I've always liked creating and working on tools, so working on Jenkins is a crowning achievement for me, even if it's not core.

== What growth have you seen in Jenkins since joining the project?

> We have been getting more and more instances defined as code, this means that they do not have to go in and configure settings manually since the code is pre-defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have been getting more and more instances defined as code.
This means that users do not have to go in and configure settings manually since the code is pre-defined.
```

> We are also slowly progressing to have ci.jenkins.io to being defined and managed as code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are also slowly progressing towards ci.jenkins.io being defined and managed as code.
```

Currently, there are some small areas in Jenkins infrastructure using this. 

== Is there an aspect of Jenkins that you're particularly passionate about?

> Right now, I'm having fun with refactoring Windows build process, using the docker controller on the agent image.

Reviewer: the Windows build process?
Windows build processes?

= Hervé Le Meur
:page-name: Hervé Le Meur

> :page-linkedin: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:page-linkedin: herve-le-meur
```

:page-twitter: 
:page-github: hlemeur
:page-email: 
:page-image: avatar/herve-le-meur.jpg
:page-pronouns: He/Him/His
:page-location: Paris, France
:page-firstcommit: 2020
:page-datepublished: 2024-04-10
:page-featured: true
:page-intro: Hervé Le Meur is a software architect and current member of the Jenkins Infrastructure team. He was introduced to the project via Jenkins-x and then moved on to work on Jenkins as part of the Infrastructure team.

Despite coming from a more analog background, Hervé got his first real taste for technology with the Amstrad CPC 464 computer.
Today, when he's not working on Jenkins tasks, Hervé likes to go for walks outside with his family, catch up on reading, and unwind watching his favorite shows.

== What is your background prior to contributing to Jenkins? 

After graduating university, I worked at a company for 10 years, but there was no CI/CD there.

> I did not have an opportunity to use open-source products there, but my next job had teams using Jenkins.
> I started befriending developers there, worked to become a software architect, and spent half a year integrating CD.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After that, I went into a Building Information Modeling software company, starting as software engineer. Some teams were using Jenkins, but it seemed difficult and slow for them at the time.
As I grown into the role of software architect, I was tasked with putting in place a new CI/CD based on Jenkins X, which took me several trimesters.
```

> Through my work, I learned more about Kubernetes & CI/CD, and in doing so I contributed quite a lot to Jenkins-x, which is what we used as the CI/CD tool.
> However, due to the project being in beta, it was more complicated than I anticipated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As Jenkins X was fresh from the oven and as I was new to Kubernetes, this was a much more difficult task than anticipated, especially since the passage of Jenkins X to beta, making me redo most of what I put in place several times.
Through this work, I learned a lot about Kubernetes & CI/CD, and in doing so I contributed quite a lot to Jenkins X, my first contributions to the open-source world.
```

In my head I was a programmer, not a sysadmin.
So when link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/markewaite/[Mark Waite] was interviewing me and asked me some network questions, this was a bit daunting and seemed potentially impossible.
However, I had an interview with Mark, link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/dduportal/[Damien Duportal], and link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/olblak/[Olivier Vernin] that was a fantastic experience.
We were able to have a meaningful discussion that helped me feel more comfortable, and made my decision easier.
15 minutes before my interview, I got a final offer from another company (where Damien & link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/jmmeessen/[Jean-Marc Meessen] had previously worked), hesitated and it turned out for the best since I'm still part of the Jenkins project today.
I also had experience moderating an online forum, so the community part of the role was familiar to me.

== How long have you been using Jenkins?

> I started with Jenkins-x but had never touched Jenkins proper.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I started with Jenkins X but had never touched Jenkins proper, which apart from the name has nothing in common.
```

> My initial impression of Jenkins was not positive, thinking it was due to how bad and unstable it was.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
My preconceptions of Jenkins were not positive, thinking it was a unwieldy, outdated and complicated Java program, from what I've heard from others dealing with it in my previous company.
```

I thought it was heavy and slow compared to alternatives.
However, once I started using Jenkins the comparison was night and day.
I was not alone in thinking that Jenkins is not necessarily the best, fastest, or newest project, but was proven wrong once I started working on the project.

== Why choose Jenkins over other projects?

I didn't necessarily choose Jenkins as much as it is the main part of my job.

> As part of my role, I've spent time looking at what Olivier, Damien & Mark have put in place for infrastructure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As part of my role, I've spent time looking at what Tyler, Olivier, Damien & Mark have put in place for infrastructure.
```

> Jenkins is much improved and efficient.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Jenkins is much improved and efficient than I though.
```

> With complete integration from server to image delivery, we have control and segmentation over every aspect.

Author: I removed the line entirely, as it is awkwardly phrased and doesn't necessarily relate to the previous lines.

I love the fact that we are using Jenkins to develop and distribute Jenkins.

> This is unique because most open-source tools don't have transference success, whereas Jenkins has spent so much time and effort building to work with developer processes and functionalities.

Author: I've adjusted to use a different term `transitive`.

I also had experience moderating an online forum, so the community part of the role was familiar to me.

== How long have you been using Jenkins?

I started with Jenkins X but had never touched Jenkins proper.
Apart from sharing the Jenkins name, they have nothing in common.
My preconceptions of Jenkins were negative.
I thought it was an unwieldy, outdated, and complicated Java program.
These impressions manifested from what I had heard from others dealing with it in my previous company.
However, once I started using Jenkins, the comparison was night and day.
My first impression was that it was heavy & slow compared to others.
I was not alone in thinking that Jenkins is not necessarily the best, fastest, or newest project, but I was proven wrong once I started working on the project.

== Why choose Jenkins over other projects?

I didn't necessarily choose Jenkins as much as it is the main part of my job.

> As part of my role, I've reviewed what Tyler, Olivier, Damien & Mark have put in place for infrastructure.
> Jenkins is much more improved and efficient than I thought.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But as soon as I started reviewing what Tyler, Olivier, Damien & Mark have put in place for Jenkins infrastructure, I realised that Jenkins is much more improved and efficient than I thought.
```
(Avoiding the "part of" repetition)

I also love the fact that we are using Jenkins to develop and distribute Jenkins.
This usage is unique because most open-source tools don't have transitive success.
Jenkins has spent so much time and effort building to work with developer processes and functionalities.
In my eyes, this is one of the main aspects of why Jenkins is successful.

> Jenkins has also integrated other tools, such as Terraform and Puppet, but Jenkins remains the orchestrator of these.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Jenkins has also integrated other tools, such as Terraform, Puppet, Kubernetes and Helmfile amongst others, but Jenkins remains the orchestrator of these.
```
